---
layout: article
title: ITSM / ITOM
subtitle: Servicenow
img: sn.jpg
categories: flowbird
---

<div class="body">
  
  <h2>Requirement Definition</h2>
  
  <p>In this process, we need to define the requirements of the project and analyze them. Those requirements need to
be defined regarding the “Business Processes” of the company. For this we need to have:</p>

  <ul>
    <li>The “As is” situation</li>
    <li>The “To be” situation</li>
  </ul>
  
  <p>The work that need to be done after is in two steps:</p>
  
  <ul>
    <li>Step 1: Define all the requirements that cover the business processes of the company. At this level we are not
“Solution dependent”</li>
    <li>Step 2: See after, regarding the Solution/Implementation chosen, how each requirement is full fill</li>
    <ul>
      <li>OOTB (Out Of The Box)</li>
      <li>Configuration</li>
      <li>Customization</li>
      <li>Not possible</li>
    </ul>
  </ul>
  
  <p>The goal is really to minimize the “Customization”, in a way to have a more standard Solution, that will be
easily maintain from time to time, when the upgrade of the core solution will occur along the life of the software. It’s
a good KPI to have the % of Customization, in a way to present the project. A goal below 5% is a good average, knowing
that we exclude from this number the migration, which is by default customized to full fill the customer data.</p>

  <p>A workshop is something really well defined, and need to be conducted like this:</p>
  
  <ul>
    <li>An input</li>
    <ul>
      <li>The topic of the workshop needs to be defined (like Change Management)</li>
      <li>Flowbird need to come with the “As Is” methodology and processes, and explain it</li>
      <li>SME (Subject Matter Expert) who owns the Process and can speak about it and take decisions</li>
    </ul>
    <li>An execution</li>
    <ul>
      <li>The animator needs to show the OOTB solution, presents the approach and best practices we should
put in place</li>
      <li>Discussion should be done around the “non OOTB” point</li>
    </ul>
    <li>An output</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Are we cover all the Business Processes?</li>
      <li>What can be done OOTB/Configuration?</li>
      <li>What can we do in Customization, or not do? This is really the challenging part, where Flowbird needs
to balance the option to do it, to modify his processes, or to abandon</li>
    </ul>
  </ul>
  
  <p>To be successful on this approach, you need to put in place a governance (see Conclusions): the Implementor needs
to challenge Flowbird and help him in the decision taking.</p>
  
</div>
